#labels Quickstart,Maven,Archetype,JacpFX
#install and usage tutorial for JacpFX. 

* This Tutorial will give you a short introduction how to start development with JacpFX *

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Prerequirements =
  * {{{OS: windows >= xp, OSX (lion), any Linux}}}
  * {{{Java 7 update >6}}} 
  * maven installed
  * set JAVA_HOME, M2_HOME


if you want to create native executables yo need:

  * on windows: http://www.jrsoftware.org/isdl.php to generate exe; http://wix.sourceforge.net/ to generate msi
  * on osx (xcode? it is always installed? at least for me ;-) )
  * on linux "rpmbuild" for rpm´s... on debain he simply creates the deb´s

= Create a (quickstart) project from archetype =
{{{mvn archetype:generate  -DarchetypeGroupId=org.jacp  -DarchetypeArtifactId=JacpFX-quickstart-archetype  -DarchetypeVersion=1.1  -DarchetypeRepository=http://developer.ahcp.de/nexus/content/repositories/jacp}}}

Add a groupId (like com.my.company), an artifactId (which will be the project name  ... {{{MyFirstJacpFXProject}}}) and press enter for the rest (or change version number and package name ).

 
= JacpFX development =
  * The quickstart-archetype genaretes an example project including two *perspectives {{{(pure JavaFX and FXML)}}}*, two (pure) *{{{JavaFX}}} components*, two *{{{FXML}}} components*, a stateful- and a stateless-component and one simple spring bean. It includes all ressources and configurations to start real life project from scratch. the resource folder contains following folders:

 * *bundles* : contains the message.properties
 * *fxml* : contains the fxml files
 * *images* : all application images
 * *css* : all stylesheets

The pom.xml includes all Ant-Tasks from Oracle to create native executables, create binary css, executeable jar´s and jnlp files. For web deployment you should uncomment the jar signing and add you keys there. 

= Build the project =
 * To build the created archetype project as it is, simply go to the {{{$PROJECT_HOME}}} {{{MyFirstJacpFXProject}}} and type: *{{{mvn package}}}*
 * When the build process is finished you find the executeables in {{{$PROJECT_HOME}}}/target/deploy ; the native executeables you find in ../target/deploy/bundles ... depending on your platform simply execute the {{{*.exe, double click the *.dng, or type sudo dpkg -i *.deb}}}. To execute the {{{*.jar}}} located in deploy folder, simply type *{{{java -jar project-name.jar}}}*

= Import to Eclipse/Netbeans/ =
Maven projects can be imported directly to Eclipse, Netbeans and IDEA. If you want to create "native" projects simply execute in root folder *{{{mvn eclipse:eclipse, or mvn netbeans:netbeans or mvn idea:idea}}}*

= integration into existing maven project =
== The repository location: ==
{{{
	<repositories>
                ...
		<repository>
			<id>jacp</id>
			<url>http://developer.ahcp.de/nexus/content/repositories/jacp</url>
		</repository>
	</repositories>
}}}

== The JacpFX dependencies: ==

{{{
                <dependency>
			<groupId>org.jacp.project</groupId>
			<artifactId>JACP.API</artifactId>
			<version>1.1</version>
			<scope>compile</scope>
		</dependency>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.jacp.project</groupId>
			<artifactId>JACP.JavaFX</artifactId>
			<version>1.1</version>
			<scope>compile</scope>
		</dependency>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.jacp.project</groupId>
			<artifactId>JACP.JavaFXSpring</artifactId>
			<version>1.1</version>
			<scope>compile</scope>
		</dependency>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.jacp.project</groupId>
			<artifactId>JACP.JavaFXControls</artifactId>
			<version>1.1</version>
			<scope>compile</scope>
		</dependency>
}}}

== The reference to JavaFX == 
{{{
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.oracle</groupId>
			<artifactId>javafx</artifactId>
			<version>2.2</version>
			<systemPath>${java.home}/lib/jfxrt.jar</systemPath>
			<scope>system</scope>
		</dependency>}}}